In the name of God

# Server (`sshd`) configuration

## Public-key-only authentication

-  ​

# Client

## Connecting

-  ​

## `scp`

-  ​

## Port forwarding

-  `-L [<bind-address>:]<local-port>:<host>:<host-port>`
   -  Open port `<local-port>` and forward the connections that are made to it as connections of the server to `<host>:<host-port>`.
   -  Connections to the local port can only be made from `<bind-address>`.
-  `-R [<bind-address>:]:<server-port>:<host>:<host-port>`
   -  Open port `<server-port>` and forward the connections that are made to it as connections of the local system to `<host>:<host-port>`.
   -  Connections to the server port can only be made from `<bind-address>`.
-  `-D [<bind-address>:]<local-port>`
   -  Open port `<local-port>` and forward the connections that are made to it to the server using the application protocol.
   -  SOCKS4 and SOCKS5 are supported.
   -  Connections to the local port can only be made from `<bind-address>`.
-  Use `-N` to execute no command.
-  Use `-f` to move `ssh` to background after the connection is established.

## Master mode connection sharing (multiplexing)

-  Description
   -  An `ssh` instance can go into master mode.
   -  It gets a path for the socket file, and creates a socket file there.
   -  Subsequent calls to `ssh` can use the connection of the master instance using the socket file.
   -  The path to the socket file has to be given to both the master instance and the other instances using the connection.
-  `-M` tell `ssh` to go into master mode.
-  `-S <path-to-socket-file>` or `-o 'ControlPath=<path-to-socket-file>'`
   -  `scp` can be used with the `-o` syntax.
-  `-O (check|forward|cancel|stop|exit)` send command to master
   -  `check` check that master is still there
   -  `forward` request port forwarding
   -  `cancel` cancel port forwarding
   -  `stop` stop accepting multiplexing requests; and exit after the last connection is closed.
   -  `exit` exit master immediately
-  ​